Debt Portfolio Capstone Summay
==============================

Debt is a large problem in the United States. Many people have fallen into large
amounts of debt much of which have a staggering interest rates attached to it. A
significant number of these people have chosen not to repay this debt. This can
be attributed to any number of reasons (loss of employment, other costs taking
precedence, with the interest being so high they don't see any reduction in the
principle amount, etc…) After a period of time trying to collect on the debt
creditors will write this debt off and sell it in hopes of recouping some of
what is owed. The process by which debt is sold comes in the form of debt
portfolios i.e., a number of different debtors are bound together and sold as a
percentage of the total amount owed. This could me pennies on the dollar, but
the amount paid varies on the amount of information given to the buyer about the
debtors included in the portfolio. For instance, all statements and
correspondence each debtor has had with the selling creditor. The more data
provided the more the portfolio will cost, however the more data you have the
better you will be able to predict if someone will eventually repay what is
owed.

 

Getting people who have a demonstrated propensity of ignoring their debts to pay
is the key to success when purchasing portfolio s of debt. How then do we do
this? It is our belief that people in this position would like a way out. Either
to just have the load of the debt off their shoulders, or to get the credit back
so they my buy a house, car, etc… This was implemented successfully with this
portfolio by forgiving the interest and fees currently associated with the loan
and reducing the interest rate to prime plus 3 for debtors meeting the following
criteria:

 

·       Bankruptcy check

·       Denver metro local

·       Home owner weighted higher then renters

·       Remaining balance \< 15k

·       Didn’t look at interest rates of 8%

·       Married and own their home

 

Can we accurately identify if the portfolio is good one to purchase?
